The Temptation of St. Anthony, by Martin Schongauer, and St. Eustace, by Albrecht Dürer are both medieval engravings that portray stories from Christian history. The two engravings have many contrasts within the settings and the scenes of piety involved. However, both engravings represent what it means to be a saint, each depicting a test of faith to Christ. Through depicting these tests, both Schongauer and Dürer give Christians an example of how to stay loyal to Christ; whereas the Temptation of St. Anthony depicts an internal test of resistance, St. Eustace depicts a test of one’s ability to externally perceive God in the world.
The Temptation of St. Anthony provides inspiration for Christian disciples to stay faithful by showing the internal struggle that St. Anthony went through in resisting his demons. St. Anthony’s expression and body language show that his struggle in the midst of temptation is mental. His facial expression is calm, with his eyes looking straight into the viewer’s eyes, instilling a sentiment of perseverance. His mouth is closed, emphasizing that his fight against his demons is silent. The hair on his beard is still, which further exemplifies how minimally St. Anthony is physically struggling. His clothes are also relatively unscathed, apart from where the demons are ruffling them; this also demonstrates St. Anthony’s choice to not struggle through violence. Demons are pulling at his arms, hands, hair, and legs, and yet, St. Anthony merely tries to stay upright. The wrinkles on his face are the only sign of his fatigue, revealing the difficulty of mental resistance. Through looking at St. Anthony’s body language, followers of Christ can admire his mental strength and pacifism in fighting temptation.
        The circle of demons around St. Anthony represent his temptations, luring him to defy Christ. Schongauer makes the demons look nothing like humans; this contrast alienates people, encouraging them to fear the “other,” and discouraging them to give in to temptation. Every demon has monstrous and/or animalistic features such as scales, spikes, wings, and fur. One is aggressively pulling St. Anthony’s scarf. Two other demons hold weapons as if they are about to strike St. Anthony. Another is almost caressing St. Anthony’s hair, which shows a different facet of temptation, one that is more alluring and deceptive due to its lack of malice at first glance. All but one of the demons have malicious smiles; the one that is not smiling catches the viewer’s eyes with an extremely long, bony nose not attributable to a particular animal or monster. Schongauer uses this more unusual feature to further alienate demons from humans.The particularity of each demon shows the many layers of temptations that affect people. The magnitude of detail in their features and expressions allows the viewer to admire St. Anthony’s persistence in resisting these demons, considering how different they are from one another; St. Anthony has to approach fighting each one differently, as they all have their own strengths and weaknesses. 
The background and positioning of the scene emphasizes St. Anthony’s isolation
from the world, further emphasizing his internal struggle. St. Anthony encounters these demons in the Egyptian desert, a sparsely populated area. In addition, he is hovering in the sky, further removing himself from the world. There is mostly negative space in the background, except for a sliver of a mountain in the bottom right corner, and a collection of horizontal dashes near the top of the engraving representing the sky. Schongauer chose to use dashes rather than clouds to empty the sky and further isolate the scene of St. Anthony’s test. True tests of faith occur when one has no human assistance. However, St. Anthony was able to solicit his strength from his devotion to Christ, trusting that He would be able to give him strength despite His invisibility. This isolation makes St. Anthony’s persistence more admirable, as he had to rely on his own strength and faith alone; Schongauer implies that even when struggling alone, one can feel empowered through Christ. 
St. Eustace provides inspiration for Christian disciples to stay faithful by demonstrating that it is possible to perceive Christ in the external world, but not every Christian will be able to do so. St. Eustace’s remarkable piety is rewarded when he witnesses a miracle in a fleeting moment. Unlike, St. Anthony’s test, which was internal, St. Eustace’s test was external; Dürer paints St. Eustace in the middle of a real forest, not in the sky with imaginary demons. Typically, deer and other wild animals do not stay still for very long while going about their daily lives. However, in this work, the deer with a miniature crucifix on its head shows no motion and is central to the engraving’s significance. St. Eustace spots the crucifix and immediately drops down to his knees to start praying; he looks intently into the deer’s eyes and is in awe. Dürer depicts St. Eustace with his two hands apart from each other, as if any second later, he would start praying. This shows movement, which is significant because it enhances the importance of this miracle and how crucial it was to show one’s loyalty to Christ the second it happened. He is also wearing hunting gear, rather than saintly clothing, further indicating that he did not intend to stumble upon a miracle. Durer depicts him caught in the moment, witnessing a miracle that, seemingly, no other person can see. The crucifix itself is small and hidden within the rest of the painting’s elements. Once the viewer finds the crucifix in the engraving, the viewer can feel a little of the awe St. Eustace felt, and possibly become more pious in the hopes of one day witnessing a similar miracle.
The animals in the foreground contribute to the worldliness of St. Eustace’s miracle, but are also oblivious to their surroundings, further exemplifying St. Eustace’s piety. Unlike the demons in Temptation of St. Anthony, the animals in St. Eustace are not involved with the test of faith. There are five dogs close to the lower part of the frame; some are standing, some are sitting, and one is looking up to St. Eustace’s horse. Dogs are a universal symbol of loyalty; however, they do not seem to notice the miracle happening behind them. Dürer made this artistic choice because he wanted to show that not all pious people can see miracles, representing the pious with dogs. He is implying that it takes an extremely high degree of faith for one to witness a miracle hidden in the physical world. St. Eustace’s horse takes up almost half of the foreground and looks straight into the viewer’s eyes. This horse is significant because although it did transport St. Eustace to this holy location, the horse is also not aware of the miracle. The presence of the animals and their lack of awareness further exemplifies St. Eustace’s sainthood, with Durer depicting St. Eustace as the only living thing able to witness the miracle. Even though the animals look withdrawn from the world in St. Eustace, they still contribute to the external nature of this test of faith, as they are still real animals.
The nature in the engraving completes the worldliness of St. Eustace’s miracle. As opposed to Schongauer engraving an empty sky in the Temptation of St. Anthony, Dürer engraved in St. Eustace a castle, a river, a small bridge, and countless trees and, other greenery around St. Eustace and the miracle he witnessed. In the foreground there is some brush, but mostly rocks where the dogs are sitting. In the middleground is a river, a small bridge and tall trees that serve to hide the deer and the crucifix. Dürer engraves the deer’s antlers similarly to how he engraved some of the tree branches, incorporating the miracle into the physical world. The background contains the most detail, enlarging the world that St. Eustace is in. In the background is the castle, complete with a grand staircase and multiple buildings and levels, increasing the presence of the castle. Integrated with the castle are cliffs and below the castle are more trees and shrubbery. There are also some mountains in the distance to the left of the castle, further expanding the world shown in this engraving. Having so many details condensed into one engraving makes St. Eustace’s test of faith more admirable as it shows, again, that St. Eustace had to be a man of exceptional piety to notice such miracle in an extremely detailed, tangible world.
Through analyzing the Temptation of St. Anthony, by Martin Schongauer, and St. Eustace, by Albrecht Dürer, one can gain confidence and impetus to stay faithful. St. Anthony demonstrates that even through times of extreme internal hardship, one can stay faithful to Christ. St. Eustace shows that Christ is truly present in the natural world, which allows Christian followers to trust Him and his judgement more. By having multiple artists show internal and external facets to faith, Christianity becomes more solidified into society, as they convince more and more people to believe that Christ is omnipresent and worth staying faithful to.